Code and data associated with the paper *The influence of explicit local dynamics on range expansions driven by long-range dispersal* [(Villiger and Paulose 2022)](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.09.15.508171v1).

We ran simulations using `inv_transf_jumps.slim` and analyzed data using various Python scripts. The code used to generate figures for the paper is included in `figures.ipynb`, as are exact numbers of simulations that went into averages and notes about which Python scripts generated the data that went into each figure.

The simulations are ready to run in the SLiM GUI as written; they can also be run from the command line after setting a few parameters using the `-d` flag. The important parameters one may want to adjust are at the top and bottom of the `initialize()` block. Population parameters such as the local carrying capacity, kernel exponent, and percentage of dispersal attempts which are short-range are at the top of the block. All variables within the `if (exists('slimgui'))` statement must be set from the command line if not using the GUI. At the bottom of the `initialize()` block you can set whether or not local logistic growth should be recorded around a set of initially isolated individuals or if some/all of the initial population should have a mutation. Local logistic growth recording can be specified by defining the variable `record_logistic` as either T/F at the command line; the mutation strategy cannot currently be set from the command line but the simulation code could readily be adapted to make that possible. Three additional variables *must* be defined if running from the command line: `iter` and `maxiter` (useful for tracking batch jobs as simulations complete on a cluster), and `working_dir` (careful, this requires two sets of quotation marks). Here's an example of how this can be run from CL: <br>
`slim -d mu=1.5 -d local_percentage=0 -d max_num=10 -d cutoff=1e6 -d record_logistic=F -d working_dir="'~/Desktop/'" -d iter=1 -d maxiter=1 inv_transf_jumps.slim`

The SLiM simulations will always return at least two CSV files: a single-row file that records simulation parameters, and a longer file that records population-level data (population size, heterozygosity, etc.) each generation. Setting `record_spatial` to true leads to another CSV file with all individuals' spatial positions and birth generations. The outputs for measurements at the level of interaction regions (logistic growth and local heterozygosity) are structured as 2D arrays where each column is a different interaction region. The simulation data that went into figures in the paper is stored in the data folder, and Python scripts used to analyze simulation data are stored in the code folder. 
